# Guided Questions
#### Ariana Rubin

1. I have decided to research the virtual reality headsets.  Virtual reality is a new system that creates a 3-dimensional world for many digital realms.  While mainly used as a gaming system, VR headsets are also used for 3-dimensional illustration tools, 360 degree videos, sculpting, social interaction, and much more. The virtual reality headsets are composed of features that act as goggles and headphones for visual and auditorial effects.

2. Forte Technologies was a marketed company from the 1990's.  This company created VFX1 headgear, a virtual reality headset.  In addition, Facebook shelled out $2,000,000 for Oculus, another virtual reality company, before any of the device were shipped.  Best Buy was originally going to sell the Oculus headsets and games in their stores, but since there were problems with early shipments, Best Buy's deal eventually "fizzled."  Also, Google has made some VR headsets.  They originally started with a $15 cardboard version of VR, and eventually created a sturdier headset.  Finally, Microsoft has their own VR headset called the Microsoft Holo Lens.  This device is still being developed, but Microsoft has announced some of their games for the headset.  

3. The idea of virtual reality technologies started to develop in the early 1800s, around the time when the first photograph was taken. The first stereoscope was invented in 1838 by using twin mirrors to project a single image.  Eventually, this developed into the "View-Master" which is still being made today. Jaron Lanier, founder of VPL Research, began to develop goggles and gloves  in the 1980s when the term "virtual reality" first appeared. Inventor Ivan Sutherland created the "head-mounted device" in 1965 which he said would "serve as a 'window into a virtual world.'"  Later, at NASA Ames Research Center, the Virtual Interface Environment Workstation (VIEW) combined the head-mounted device and gloves together to create a haptic interaction in the mid-1980s.

4. Virtual Reality is mainly used for video games, and is therefore associated as another video game counsel.  Another technology that virtual reality is associated with a camera.  Virtual Reality has been compared to photography many times, especially since the idea of virtual reality started the same time the first photograph was taken.    
